# cs465-fullstack
CS-465 Full Stack Development with MEAN


## Architecture
When building the full stack poject, we employed many front-end languages for various features. The customer-facing site was built in Express HTML at first, but then switched to a .hbs view to improve rendering times by caching frequently-used resources. As HTML is client-facing and not server-side, it cannot communicate with back-end databases to dynamically change content. Javascript is a server-side and client-side scripting language used to create interactive features on websites. With this, we were able to retrieve trip details from MongoDB and display them on the website in real time, based on how the user interacted with it. In contrast to standard HTML pages, single-page applications only update the content in response to certain user activities. This is especially helpful for making the website feel like a local or native application while using the application's features. The backend relied on a NoSQL MongoDB database due to its simplicity of altering schema depending on scalability and functionality changes, as well as its ability to swiftly grow horizontally due to the database's non-relational structure.

## Functionality
JSON is a standard format for object data that Javascript may read to create a literal object. This facilitates Javascript's ability to grab the data and shape it into a Javascript object. In this method, data/JavaScript objects may be saved on the backend and utilized in various contexts depending on what the frontend is asking the data for, hence bridging the gap between frontend and backend development. As a result, the information only has to be saved once before being accessed and used in many ways. The code pertaining to trip cards and trip lists, for example, was refactored to enhance both usefulness and performance. Instead of having two independent components render the same data, it would be more efficient for the site as a whole if each journey were rendered independently but yet integrated into the whole. Benefits of reusing user interface components include shorter development times, smaller applications, and less risk of bugs and security flaws (provided the component is secure).

## Testing
In order to ensure that your endpoints are working properly before you implement security measures, you may put them through a few different tests. Visiting the API endpoint's localhost web URL is the simplest way to check for data load success and error messages. Nevertheless, an HTTP request testing solution like Postman is preferable since it can also take security measures and inputs into account when testing endpoints that may be protected from unauthenticated users. The methods of a website are what control its functionality and dynamism in a full stack application. To obtain or update the database, http requests such as GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE can be used to accomplish the functionality. Database operations (.create,.findOne,.find,.findOneAndUpdate) are used to tailor the database to individual customers' requirements. An application's endpoints are the results of its methods as perceived by the application's administration or its end users. It is important to test endpoints to ensure they display data correctly or provide errors in the event of a real problem. Adding a layer of code for security helps ensure that only authorized individuals may access and make changes to the database. Adding or modifying an existing trip record is one such instance. This API's endpoints must be secured to prevent data corruption from occurring.

## Reflection
In terms of furthering my career, this course has been helpful. With a full-time job and full-time studies, I've had a hard time deciding what I want to do after graduation, what languages I'm interested in learning, and whether I want to work on the front or back end of software development. This class has given me a clearer idea of where I want to go with my profession and what additional training I'll need to go further in my career. Maybe the most useful thing I've learned is how to properly integrate several code modules into a larger whole.
